[Music]
welcome to another episode of seven men
in marketing with Pam my name is Pam
dinner I love sharing a little dose
appear to be digital content marketing
and the sales enablement in seven
minutes at a time one of the mandatory
requirements for modern marketers is to
understand the technology side of
marketing or ma tech modern marketing
can't function without technology there
are technologies and platforms behind
any digital communications even for
offline marketing efforts
just take Facebook Ads as an example
they've evolved so much from a simple
banner ads to processes like using
messenger to share content and timely
updates with your subscribers social
media platforms are continually evolving
and coming up with new and creative ways
to sell ad space so to help manage those
new features new platforms and tools
have been created all the time right to
help us manage the new capabilities you
require technology upon technology to
manage your marketing effort it's like
adding technology on top of technology
so you can't just launch one tool check
it off the list expect everything works
the same way anymore the good old days
are gone here's a great example right
voice recognition we marketers literally
spent the past ten years optimizing our
websites for text search now comes alexa
and google home so in the near future it
will be our jobs
mark my words to create voice centric
content and make sure they are optimized
for voice recognition so now we have SEO
and SEM guess what we may have a voice
search optimization and voice search
marketing you know it's coming so guess
what we may need a new set smart tag
just to manage voice recognitions ma
tech evaluation never ends so we need to
constantly stay on top of new
technologies and evaluate and reevaluate
your marketing techni
NEADS I know is exhausting I get it
and according to my tech 5000 they are
more than 7000 tools and the platforms
available as of 2019 and there's a tool
for almost any marketing and sales
functions or tactics that you could ever
imagine so here are several steps to
help you keep your ma tech stack up to
date number one clearly articulate your
pain points and challenges know what you
want to solve how you define your
problems will guide the subsequent
research next Google search on your
pinpoints and see what tools and the
platforms are available research the
potential platforms that understand
their pros and cons next contact vendors
and request demos at the same time talk
to your colleagues and industry peers
and get a sense of what they use lastly
pilot or do free trials before you make
a purchase decision that is one approach
for evaluation based on your pinpointing
challenges but trust me over period of
time you'll end up with multiple tools
that may perform similar or overlapping
functions then you need to reevaluate
the overall ma txtag kinda like spring
cleaning to determine what you want to
keep or delete the truth is there's no
simple answer to that question
my advice for keeping up with technology
is to pursue continuous learning the
more you understand how technologies
work holistically the more you can
connect the dots and the more strategic
you become the best way to go about
creating and updating your montag is to
know and understand what's out there if
you want to talk about your company's ma
tech stack reach out anytime love to
have a chat again if you like the
podcast please share with your marketing
colleagues and a friends you will be
greatly appreciated in the meantime keep
learning my friends and you got this
[Music]